The exhibition opens with this magnificent banner, of which you see the Verzo, which is the book plate from the library of Emperor Nicholas II in the Winter Palace.
The book plate was designed by Baron Armin Folkassan, who was the curator of the silver and gold collections of the Hermitage, and it's a magnificent example of fin de siècle book design, or book plate design, and the inscription in a stylized old church Slavonic says, the private library of his imperial majesty, the Winter Palace, which is, of course,
the Hermitage now.
Nicholas had about 30,000 volumes in his library in the Winter Palace, some of which are on display here.
I think that he was
an administrator of a vast, very complex, multinational empire, and used books as reference material, and for his leisure reading.
It was a tradition in the Alexander Palace, which was in Tsarskoe Sala, which was the residence of the
the imperial family to relax by reading in the evenings and reading in a variety of languages.
So who acquired the books for him?
He had a private librarian who
He would survey various catalogues and make selections, which the librarians and their co-porteurs in Western Europe would obtain for him.
Of course, they were fluent in many languages.
Were they acquiring for rarity of content?
It depends on the mode of acquisitions, and I'm going to discuss that in a second.
Nicholas, the exhibition, first of all, is very much connected with the centennial of the Slavic and Baltic.
collections we're celebrating our centennial next year.
And in the course of a century, we've served millions of readers ranging from Nabokov to Trotsky to Bukharin to Majakovsky to Jacqueline Kennedy Anassas too.
George Frost Kennan, and General Van Eken, and so on and so on.
And this is a kind of payback to this international clientele that we have served in the course of a century.
And the reason we selected these materials of the hundreds of thousands that we could have shown
is that the materials are very glamorous, the theme is glamorous, and the materials are drawn from all parts of the library's collections.
That is to say, it is not simply from Slavic and Baltic,
This is very important to keep in mind that, for example, Pride of Place here is given to books from the Oriental and from the Aarons collection, where they have Imperial Association volumes, and I'm going to dwell on that.
So it's not all Romanov.
No, it is all Romanov, but it's from different divisions of the library, the music division, the Aarons.
Some of these things were acquired.
They were dispersed.
They were dispersed, and that's the problem.
Now the reconstruction.
This was library practice.
I plead innocence.
So one of the themes, the first themes, I think, of the exhibit, and there are four really underlying themes, I would say, is number one, that the collections here are museological, they're artifactual in nature.
It's not only the Met, it's not only the Museum of Modern Art that has spectacular things to show.
Is that all museological?
I don't know, I just made it up.
Probably not.
I make up a lot.
In any case, we also have material that is of a museum quality, and we like to show it.
Again, museum quality, the definition being rarity?
Rarity, beautiful silver bindings.
uh, imperial association binding.
So we've- The large significance of content.
That also, that leads me to another theme of the exhibit.
So the artifactual significance, and then secondly, that it's drawn from all of the library's collections.
This is not only Slavic and Baltic division, where you would expect to find such material.
because the 10th case, which is called Western Perspectives on the Romanov, is material in Western.
It's in Italian, it's in French, it's in German, showing also rare books how the Romanov were perceived in Western literature, because the message is that Slavic is not only Slavic language, it's everything relating to these cultures.
So we have a very broad definition of our collections here.
And then maybe the third...
The third theme that I want to emphasize is that the books are not only books beautiful and rare, but they are books that tell us something about the way these individuals view their historic role and their historic obligations in the administration.
of an empire that occupied a sixth of the world's surface, from America to the Elba, and down to the Hawaiian Islands and California.
This is the empire at its height under Nicholas I. Can I ask you a question?
Yes.
This is the first time you have ever exhibited anything from the Romanov.
Would such an exhibition have been possible during the Soviet years?
I would have done it with reluctance.
I would have done it with reluctance, but let's save that discussion for a moment.
Just make sure the tape is running fine.
Yeah, it is.
Now, let me just give maybe a fourth.
or a third underlining theme that the books are messengers of how these people who own them which was the ruling elite of the late 19th early 20th century how these individuals
how these individuals recreated with these books, how they explored with these books, how they conducted war with these books.
And you firmly believe they did all these things.
You be the judge.
I'll show you, and let's see whether the case is compelling, how they defended their faith with these books.
In other words, the books as prisms to various activities of this vast...
multicultural empire.
And let's start with the first two cases, which are background cases.
They talk about some of the personages who own these books, and about some of the buildings from which they were nationalized and confiscated by the Soviet government,
after the Bolshevik Revolution, and then into the 20s.
And let me just say that the books were taken from
the books that we have at least, were taken from some of the last emperors, Alexander II, Alexander III, Nicholas II, and the brother of Emperor Alexander III, the Grand Duke Vladimir Alexandrovich in 1931.
the library bought about 2,700 volumes from his library, and he, by far, most of the books in this exhibit come from his library.
Were these selected by your predecessors?
These were selected, purchased by primarily Avram Yarmolinsky, who was curator for 40 years, and so many of the greatest acquisitions of
The books of the czars came during his tenure.
with some subsequent... Realize, though, that many of the books, even if they were purchased later, first appeared on the antiquarian book market in the 20s and 30s.
These are historic books.
We knew about them from auction catalogs in the 30s, and they went underground, they resurfaced, they were bought again, and so on.
Yeah, this is a case in point here.
For example, this Ottoman album.
I'm taking it on faith, by the way, that these...
all of these items are in the catalog that I'll be getting.
I don't have to take notes seriously.
No, everything is in the catalog.
So, for example, this item here, Mr. Davis, who's over there, he would probably tell you, this book probably first appeared in the bookmarked
in the 1930s.
The book we're talking about?
Right.
The book is an album of Ottoman watercolors.
This was from the first part of the 19th century.
It was presented to the Russian Tsar to show him how the various Ottoman adversaries appeared.
And here is, you know, one of the viziers, Minister F. Nangea.
appeared to a Russian artist who sketched it.
So let's look a little bit further here.
You don't mind if I occasionally ask a question?
No, not at all.
For example, here... Well, is this a part of their history?
Then you think that the Soviets were eager to...
or they were just kind of... No, I think both.
I mean, why, if you were Lenin or Trotsky, and realize Trotsky and Bukharin worked in this library before World War I, in his memoirs, Trotsky says that the first place that Bukharin dragged him from St.
Mark's place was here to the public library.
in my life.
So, you know, they knew this library, but why would you want to keep these relics of the ancien regime?
I mean, think of what happened after the French Revolution.
You began to expunge, to sell, to nationalize, to
Were books a victim after that period of time?
There have certainly been some manuscript collections and books ended up in Russia, thanks to the Russian rulers again, saving them.
And here we have this situation in reverse.
An unusual continuum.
Yeah, an unusual continuum.
Bizarre continuum.
And this is kind of background material.
All of these are from imperial collections.
This is from the Coronation Album of Emperor Alexander II, one of the biggest books ever published.
Look at the quality of the chromolithography.
It's superb.
You can very easily identify all of the personalities who are here.
For example, the Hungarian ambassador.
This is a printed book.
There were 200 printed.
We have two of them.
We have the French version and the Russian version.
These are all original photographs.
Did you say at the time this material was acquired, this was the smallest collection outside of Russia slash the Soviet Union?
No, it was certainly the most heavily used, because we're celebrating, as I say, our centenary.
But you were in place.
We were in place, and we were ready to leap at the opportunity.
And here, for example, is another coronation album showing the most sacred part of the coronation of Nicholas II.
And here, this cloth,
that you see on the Bishop Desna Bedrinek, you'll see the original in one of the other cases that was sold by the Soviets to Armand Hammer during the 20s.
Again, here one of our readers, Isabel Hapgood, who wrote denunciations to the library director about all of the radicals working in our reading room.
Here, she is in St.
Petersburg,
in 1916, and who writes to her but Empress Alexandra in remembrance of Tsarskoye Sela, Alexandra, in lovely English.
And look at the date.
Yeah, 1916.
Very close.
Yeah, and then this book... December 8th.
Right, fell into the collection of Mrs. Edward Harkness.
A very important page for Mrs. Harkness.
Exactly, right.
Harkness...
I write books.
And so here is the interior.
This is not an emigrate library, but in a way it is, isn't it?
It's the materials.
I'm sorry.
We'll talk about that at another time.
Here is the interior of the library of Nicholas II in the Winter Palace, and here you see the actual room.
It's called the Gothic Library.
The Gothic Library.
That's where so many of these things resided.
Some.
Some of these things.
Here is his book plate.
Here's his book plate, which is a recurring theme in the entire book plate.
Is that the actual book plate?
That's the original, by Baron Folker Sam.
Was it in all those colors?
Yes, that's exactly the way it looks.
Now, here we come to some of the Grand Dukes, whose books are also represented, particularly the Grand Duke Vladimir Alexandrovich, and here he is in his youth, an original photograph, and here is one of his three residences in St.
Petersburg, next to the Hermitage,
A very powerful figure, usually called the third person in the Russian state at the end of the 19th, beginning of the 20th.
And here's the interior of his library in this building, which held about 65,000 volumes, and realized that we have about 2,700 of these books.
Now, what we're looking at here are photographs and illustrations.
Are these fun?
Are these individual...
These aren't books that we're looking at.
Some were scanned from books that we have.
That's an original photograph, for example.
This is a scan to show the modern thing, and this is a historic photograph of the interior of the library in this building.
And here, for example, is the Grand Duke Konstantin Konstantinovich, his book plate, and here is his palace, the marble palace.
And here you see other book plates represented in the collection.
So, for example, from Tsarskoe Selov, from Pavlovsk, and so on and so on.
And here, finally, the last of personages and palaces.
Here you see the third coronation album, also magnificent, of Emperor Alexander III, the father of Nicholas.
And here is... That's magnificent.
Here is he...
and the mother, the Danish princess Dagmar, whose 150th anniversary is now being celebrated.
Hi, could I have some kind of schmata, please, because I'm going to do a... I don't have a schmata.
Oh, thanks.
As I go along... I usually have some schmata.
We'll get there.
This is Mr. Baz Baines, who is doing an article.
These are my colleagues, Barbara Serg, Judith Ribichoff, and Mr. Davis, you know?
Welcome to the show, please.
So, the Danish princess Dagmar, whose 150th anniversary is now being celebrated in a show at the Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen, a major show.
She died in Copenhagen.
You remember the film Anastasia?
This is Helen Hayes, Helen Hayes' role.
You're pretty proud of this exhibition, you're cleaning the... Yes, I hate smudge marks.
Don't think this doesn't get into this story.
No, I do.
I don't do windows, though.
Only glass cases.
Now, let's go further.
Now, here.
Cases three to eight are the core of the exhibit.
how these materials were utilized by their owners in the palaces in which they resided to deal with issues of empire, its historical memory, the historical memory of empire, how these books were used in various military and foreign policy campaigns, how they were used in exploration, how they were used in travel and leisure,
how they were used in issues of faith.
This is the core, these cases of the exhibit.
And then cases 9 and 10 are again pendants.
They're explicatory material because case 9 says salesmen, sellers, and buyers.
How did the books get here?
Because you look at this stuff and you wonder, well, you know, what's the story?
And then the last case, as I explained, is setting it in the context of library-wide collections.
so that people should not walk away thinking that the Slavic collections are exclusively this kind of material, or in this script, because they're not.
So let's walk... These notes are all in the material that I... Everything is in... Right.
Nicholas, the catalog is over 100 pages.
It's very well illustrated.
Very often the same images.
And here...
All of the regions of the empire, for example, here you see books, bound silver, gold, by Tarzok masters.
You see, for example, how they would present in cases these materials to Vladimir Alexandrovich.
Look at the guild.
.
Someone would come from a city, a delegation, they would make an appointment with the secretary, they would be given a day when they could appear at court, and they would present this formally, these views of particular regions.
And here is one of the rarest items in the entire collection.
This is the super ex libris of Maria Fyodorovna, the wife of Emperor Paul,
who was assassinated in 1801.
One of the earliest books that we have from Romanov Library is the end of the 18th century.
So, 1773.
Exactly.
This is one of the earliest.
Is this your first major exhibition in this room?
No, we've had a Polish exhibition here, but not quite on this scale.
Many of these items here are also books that were presented to the emperor.
For example, a survey of the revolutionary movement in the Russian Empire, obviously of critical significance, prepared by the secret police for the emperor.
Right, on silk, printed on silk.
Here is one item.
Print that on silk.
The Secret Police.
No, this item is on silk.
This is a memorial volume to someone who was assassinated, so it was printed on silk.
Now, here is a description presented to Grand-Dougladimir Alexandrovich of the Great Cathedral of Christ the Savior, which was destroyed by the Soviets in the 20s, now being reconstructed.
Here is another item from Nicholas's library, dealing with a remarkable, wonder-working icon, and you see it's all in silk.
And here you see again the kinds of things in Greek, for example, by Kapo de Istrias, the foreign minister presented to Nicholas I, or these kinds of reports dealing with the external affairs of war,
of the empire, dealing with Bosnia, with the South Slavs, a very actual issue even today, that these books are in the libraries of the Tsar.
Here's a description of Bosnia, a manuscript description.
1865.
Exactly.
So these issues were very much on the minds of the imperial court.
What is going on with our brethren in the South?
And how can we serve as protectors of these people?
Here, similarly, look at this, Anastasia, Grand Duchess Anastasia or Anastasia.
Here, these people lived extremely demanding court lives.
This is from her library.
This collection of photographs from her purse was sponsored a military train during World War I. And here you see surgery being performed in one of the wagons.
And look at the cover of the book.
It's all hand-lettered from Anastasia's library.
Here's another imperial presentation, in this case to Alexander Alexandrovich and Alexander III, a book dealing a memorial volume in honor of the defeat of Napoleon.
And here you see again, 1812, just after Napoleon's defeat from the library of Tsarskoe Selaw,
Napoleon's Pyrrhic victory.
He's pulling back the curtains and Moscow burns.
Now here, military regiments would...
would present to the emperor and empress various volumes like this.
Now, here you see they came and they took the buttons, they took the uniforms, they sewed it into the book binding.
And similarly here, the hat, the perepaha, from Caracol, lambs, wool, is also so.
Now, we're showing for the first time some of the artifacts in our collections, like this from the Bantyukhov Bates collection.
Mrs. Bates will be here tonight, the widow.
He was a military officer, a major translator between Eisenhower and Zhukov during World War II.
We have his swords, and we're showing that menus, for example, from various... Everything here is not from the Roman acquisition.
You have nourished this exhibition with items, other items from...
I would say that 95% of the books are from Romanov collections, but just from background.
And most of the artifacts are from our collection.
Most of the artifacts.
They're not from private collections.
Some artifacts from one private collection.
That's all.
Because this is not a show about silver or swords.
The swords are just background.
And if we happen to have them in the collection, we use them.
And they add to something.
Exploration.
How these people viewed the various peoples of their vast empire, multinational empire.
These are original photographs by de Ruwalt of the various types of people that lived in the empire, the Caucasus, which was a trouble spot then as it is now.
And also these, for example, the photographer, you see he left the fly.
in the photograph, de Ruwalt.
And here you see
Nicholas bought 300 watercolors from the estate of academician Sansa, who was a very prominent artist.
And this is a fraction of the original watercolors.
In this case, a woman of the Don, Tatar peoples.
How many did you acquire for that house?
Excuse me, he acquired 4,000.
We have 300 in the original packing case.
Where are the others?
Dispersed, maybe in Russia.
Kyrgyz, for example.
All the strong, all the people.
Jewish population of Kolder.
Are these culled again?
Do you think these were the best of what was available in the opinion of the acquiring librarian?
They may have been culled.
We don't have any detailed documentation on it.
And here, this is a remarkable item also, a map of Peking that was presented to Nicholas I, showing the Temple of Heaven.
and the forbidden city, and the Russian compounds which surround, because, of course, the Russians had representation in Peking for 300 years, so-called Dukhovna Amicia, map of the United States, railway map.
if only because you're alert to it.
Right.
From the Pavlov's Palace, a description of shamanism on the west coast of the United States from one of the volumes, thanks so much, of Russian explorers.
Now let's go further.
Here,
Again, here, magnificent volume presented to Emperor Alexander III dealing with Central Asia in the so-called Turkestan Exposition of 1886.
Again, showing other original photographs presented.
This was in Chicago.
These are the Russian pavilions in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition.
And this stuff was there?
This material was there?
Exactly, exactly.
And here you see the interior of the Russian pavilions.
in Chicago in an imperial binding.
Now here, just to offset some of the silver in the binding, here we put a couple of fragmentary pieces just to kind of give it a little... This is original by Alexandra Fjodor, that's a watercolor by her.
And here again, you see work in leisure.
These are all original photographs taken from imperial collections.
This by one of the great photographers, Karielin, showing various exposition shows that took place in the Russian Empire in the 19th century.
Here is one of Tsarevich Alexei's books, Bound in Silk.
When he went to Kostroma with his parents, this was given to him by the Kostroma Zemstvo.
Did you decide in the various categories, culture, war, working leisure, Western perspective?
Was this something that you determined to find?
A lot of the work was done by Professor Ryeth, who will be here tonight, who had the Bakhnechev chair at Columbia.
And all of these books in works of literature, to give some kind of idea of the things that people were reading at the court,
And here, for example, you have some of the great poets of the 19th century, for example, Dead Souls.
One woman wanted to take me home with her.
And you see, Dead Souls in an imperial copy, literature that was read at the court,
Here is a book from an imperial collection documenting the opening of the Imperial Public Library in St.
Petersburg.
This is 1813, at the time of the opening of the Imperial Public Library.
Was it, in fact, a public library?
Well, it was the Imperial Public Library, open to the public as it was then understood.
Because at that particular point, perhaps 80% of the population is not literate.
Right, exactly.
Now here, also... I'm watching.
And here again, you see the culture of the empire, some of the novellas, some of the historical monuments that were found in imperial collections, some of the archaeological digs that were documented at the time and presented to the Russian emperors, and
some more historical watercolors by Sonsif.
Now here... How many of these exhibition cases do you have?
There are 10, actually 12 with two cases.
Right, right.
And here you see a fraction of the books from imperial libraries that deal with issues of faith.
Some of the great monasteries, some of the great churches of the empire, and a fraction of our collection from the Bates Pantyuchov collection of enamels.
This has never been shown before.
These enamels were done in Rastov, one of the
important cities, medieval cities of the empire.
And here, you can see again, in velvet, in velour, these photographs of the Crimea, exquisitely documented for the imperial family, documentation on one of these monsters.
Now, in the library, are these items that you would have acquired, or would they have been presented to you?
No, this was a collection that was given to us, the Bates-Pantyukhov collection.
So, explain
Why it's in the best interest of the library to get things like this?
It's part of a larger convoy of material.
In other words, his collection was primarily books and graphics, but this came along with it.
I insisted that everything come, because that was in his mind.
He was in a private home as part of the collection, as he conceived it, and I wanted to keep it intact.
He wanted to maintain the integrity of the collection as he conceived it.
remarkable photographs of the Volan Monastery, which during Soviet times was turned into a submarine base because it's, of course, on a number of islands in Lake Ladoga.
And here, the New Jerusalem Monastery, this is the model of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem.
And this is another theme that comes up, how the Russian imperial elite saw themselves as successors to Rome and to Jerusalem.
It's called the New Jerusalem Monastery.
Moscow is to become the New Jerusalem.
And it emulates exactly, in its proportions, the city of the sacred city of Jerusalem.
And here, the same theme comes up again.
Here is a book bound in olive wood that was presented to the Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich, who was patron of the Imperial Palestine Society because the Russians had a mission in Palestine.
And the book is bound in olive wood from the Mount of Olives and depicted here is the caravansary that the Russian-Palestine society maintained.
It's now the prison in Jerusalem where the Israelis keep people who are disturbing peace.
This is also from the Bates Pantyukhov collection.
One of the many icons, this of the Virgin Mary, the burning bush, which burns, but which is not consumed.
Here again, magnificent from the Library of the Grand Duke Konstantin Konstantinovich, a description of a collection of enamels.
One of the most beautiful books.
There's another copy of the book, not this specific provenance, in Ambassador Davies's collection at University of Wisconsin.
Is this collection preserving apart a slice of this history that would have disappeared if these materials hadn't come out?
It may be stretching it a little bit, but it certainly highlights certain interests and preoccupations of the imperial court.
For example, here, we could not show the most graphic plates in this book, which was presented to Alexander II, and the book deals with male and female castration.
And here are the implements of castration.
And the reason, of course, this is a Protestant sect, the Scopzi.
And they, of course, were resisting military service.
And this had to be brought to the intention of the emperor because it had all sorts of security.
Exactly.
They're very graphic.
Now, here we come to the two pendants in the exhibit, sellers, salesmen, and buyers.
We call them the pendants.
They're pendants in the sense that they're the core we've gone through.
And now we come to the kind of explicatory or explanatory.
The question arises, you're looking at the sale, well, how did it come here?
And here's the answer.
That it was part of a much larger process of the sale of treasures during that period, whether it's diamonds, and here we have the original catalog of 1925, Ministry of Finance.
This is what was up for sale.
Do we know what we paid for this?
Not really.
The documentation is very skimpy.
And I'll deal with it.
But here's the original letter of invitation from
the Ministry of Education to the New York Public Library.
They may actually initiate this.
Right.
It's to Dr. E.H.
Anderson Public Library.
It says, please come.
Bye.
It's October 29, 19, is that 24?
That's 33.
October 12, 1923.
Is this in the catalog?
Yes.
74 years.
Don't.
Don't read.
And this again shows you how the books migrated.
Here, the book was originally in Tsarskoe Sela, then it went to the reference library of the Hammer galleries, and then it was sold to the New York Public Library.
So you have the whole cycle complete with all of the stamps.
Does this collection have such depth and sophistication that you would see as absolutely research depth?
I mean, there are monographs and books and all sorts of things waiting to be
I think that certainly it is a very significant collection, that there are things from this collection that should be reproduced, reprinted, and researched further.
And here we have some of the cast of characters, Dr. Hammer, his gallery, some of the original auction catalogs,
from that period, Israel Pearlstein, the all-time king of the antiquarian book trade, interiors of galleries.
And here, some of the personalities also in the library world that were responsible for buying Romano treasures, Archibald Carey Coolidge, Paul M. Fekula, Frank Alfred Golder.
Look at that photograph.
Describe that photograph.
It's a remarkable photograph because it shows how books were sold.
There is Golder.
positioned against stacks of material.
And here is the original visa with which Harry traveled to Russia on his famous book-buying trip with Avram Yarmolinsky in 1923.
Case DeWitt Metcalfe, deputy director of the New York Public Library, who has a privilege to meet as a beginning librarian at Harvard.
He was in his 90s.
The Davies is.
Marjorie Merriweather Post, Ambassador Davies.
These are the big names.
Right.
These are the books that were removed from the palace libraries?
These are nationalized books in general.
Fekula was a great purchaser of Imperial Association books.
So these are being readied for shipment?
They're sale.
Right.
And here, for example, you just get some idea, again, of the kind of books.
This is the Coronation Album, from the Coronation Album, of Alexander II.
And what you see here is in that photograph on the table.
So again, there are many things that kind of echo throughout the exhibit.
This is one of the largest books ever printed.
It's just huge.
This is just one plate.
And then we come to the end of our excursion.
And we look at how the Romanos were perceived in some of our very rarest Western European books.
And here, for example, original sketches by an Englishman of the great battle at Balaclava during the Crimean War.
Each one of these books, for example, Gagarin's plates of the Caucasus, or, for example, Hubigong,
the French artist, the morals and costumes of Roshron.
Or for example... Yes, Chromo lithographs, by one of the great artists, Gagarin.
And here, books published in northern Italy, in Venice, in Turin, documenting the visits of Paul,
and Maria Fyodorovna to Venice, to Turin later in the century, and here again, another Western view by Kadil of the center of the Kremlin.
Now, finally, we wanted to show how the material, we come back to,
the visits of the Grand Dukes and these remarkable lithographs of Japan, of Osaka, of the tsunami, of the court, and then these two items, which
are from our collection.
We have a whole collection of imperial chartists signed by Nicholas with all of his titles.
He was Tsar, Moskovsky, Kievsky, Vladinevsky, Novgorodsky, Kazansky, Astrakhansky, and so on.
These are just the titles.
And then here, again, an imperial rescript given to someone for meritorious service in the empire.
This is the actual seal itself in
We should open it up because it's intact.
Now here, we have a genealogical table of the people represented in the exhibit.
And here, a map.
Right, yeah.
Right, tercentenary, which was celebrated in 1913.
And here,
We have a map that is related to this case of Western perspectives in German, dealing with the length and breadth of the empire, from the Elba to Alaska and California and the Hawaiian Islands.
This is Cherka, 1836, the apogee of empire.
And we very selectively put in the cities that are represented in the existence, so people could get some basic orientation.
Okay?
Remarkable.
is the freebie that everyone can take.
So I'll take them as well.
Right.
That was sponsored by the state.
And here, a little press release.
And here, these catalogs, you will get one.
And this is comprehensive.
Portrays many of the images in the... And I hope that we can get a reproduction of the book plate.
Yep.
Because we're definitely going to... Okay, fine.
Wow.
I was insane.